docs(tutorials): tutorial private network with public gateway (#94)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/vpc-private-gateway-autoconfiguration/index.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: Maybe better to change the slug so it says public gateway?

title: Deploying Instances in a Private Network and exposing them using a Public Gateway
description: This page shows how to deploy virtual Instances in a Private Network and expose them using a Public Gateway
excerpt: |
  VPC consists of Private Networks and Public Gateways to create an isolated network environment for your instances, without exposing them on the public Internet. 
totalTime: PT20M
  - network
brands:
  - vpc
keywords: cloud tutorials, cloud documentations, cloud instance, cloud hosting, network, virtual instance, private network, vpc, public gateway, virtual private cloud
---

## VPC - Overview

> VPC is a family of products providing network functionalities within the customer cloud. It consists in:

Reviewer: Maybe take the text from the console here? VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) provides network functionalities for your Scaleway cloud. VPC products include Private Networks, enabling you to build a virtual L2 network between your instances, and the Public Gateway, enabling IP autoconfiguration of your Private Networks and their communication with the Internet.

- [Private Networks](https://www.scaleway.com/en/private-networks/) that enable to create layer-2 private networks between instances,
- and [Public Gateways](https://www.scaleway.com/en/public-gateway/) that sit at the border of your private network to provide access to the public Internet and automate assignment of IP addresses.

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- You have created a [Virtual Instance](https://www.scaleway.com/en/virtual-instances/)

</Message>

## Creating a Private Network for the Virtual Instance

1. Connect to your Instance using [SSH](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/). 

  ```
  ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

>   You can connect to your instance without [flexible IP address](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/) by using it's IPv6 address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can connect to your Instance even if it doesn't have a [flexible IP address](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/) by using its IPv6 address.
```

  </Message>

2. Check the status of your network interfaces using the `ip a` command. You see the details of the default Ethernet adapter of your Instance:

  ```
  2: ens2: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether de:1c:a4:2b:d0:39 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.70.104.113/31 scope global dynamic ens2
       valid_lft 85983sec preferred_lft 85983sec
    inet6 2001:bc8:634:c38::1/64 scope global
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::dc1c:a4ff:fe2b:d039/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

> 3. Go to the [VPC section](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/private-networks) of the Scaleway console. The VPC splash screen displays. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to the [VPC section](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/private-networks) of the Scaleway console. The VPC creation page displays. 
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_splash.png" alt="" />

4. Click **Create a new Private Network**. The Private Network creation wizard displays. 

5. Enter the details of the new Private Network and click **Create a Private Network**:

  - Enter a **Name** for the Private Network
  - Select the region for the Private Network

    <Message type="note">

>     Make sure to create the Private Network in the same region as your Virtual Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Make sure to create the Private Network in the same region as your Instance.
```

    </Message>

> 6. The list of your Private Networks displays. Click on the Private Network's name to display its information. 

Reviewer: This step is displaying as step 1

> 7. Click the **Attached Resources** tab to see the list of instances attached to the Private Network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click the **Attached Resources** tab to see the list of Instances attached to the Private Network. 
```

8. Select your Instance from the drop down menu and click **Add Instance** to attach it to the Private Network:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_add_instance.png" alt="" />

> 9. Use the `ip a` command on the Instance to verify the presence of the new ethernet interface: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Use the `ip a` command from the command line of your Instance to verify the presence of the new ethernet interface: 
```

> 9. Use the `ip a` command on the Instance to verify the presence of the new ethernet interface: 

Reviewer: This step is displaying as step 1

  ```
  3: ens5: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 02:00:00:00:5a:d8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet6 fe80::ff:fe00:5ad8/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

The Instance is now added to the Private Network but no IP address has been configured. You can configure it manually or use DHCP auto configuration with a Public Gateway. 

## Creating a Public Gateway

> 1. Click the [Public Gateways](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/public-gateways) tab in the VPC section of the Scaleway console. The Public Gateways splash screen displays. Click **Create a Public Gateway**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the [Public Gateways](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/public-gateways) tab in the VPC section of the Scaleway console. The Public Gateways creation page displays. Click **Create a Public Gateway**:
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_splash.png" alt="" />

2. The Public Gateway creation wizard displays. Enter the details of the new Public Gateway: 

  - Choose the Availability Zone of the Public Gateway.
  - Select the Public Gateway offer
  - Select the Public Gateway IP address. To create a new IP, select **Allocate new IP** in the drop-down list. 
  - Enter a name and optional tags for the Public Gateway

> 3. Click **Create a Public Gateway**. The list of your Public Gateways displays.

Reviewer: This is displaying as step 1

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_list.png" alt="" />

4. Click **Manage** to display the Public Gateway Information. 

5. Click **+ Attach a new Private Network** to attach the previously created Private Network to the Public Gateway.

6. Select the Private Network from the drop-down list, then click **Attach Private Network**:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_attach_network.png" alt="" /> 

7. Check if the IP address for the Private Network has been assigned to the instance using the DHCP server of the Private Gateway by running the `ip a` command: 

  ```
  3: ens5: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 02:00:00:00:5a:d8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 192.168.0.2/24 brd 192.168.0.255 scope global dynamic ens5
       valid_lft 3513sec preferred_lft 3513sec
    inet6 fe80::ff:fe00:5bea/64 scope link 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

  You can see the private IP address `192.168.0.2` has been configured automatically on the interface.

> Note that, once the instance is added to the Private Network and auto configured through DHCP, it cannot be accessed through its public IPv4 address anymore. Later in this tutorial, we explain how to configure port forwarding to access your instances through the Public Gateway's public IPv4 address.

Reviewer: Put this in a note box?

> Note that, once the instance is added to the Private Network and auto configured through DHCP, it cannot be accessed through its public IPv4 address anymore. Later in this tutorial, we explain how to configure port forwarding to access your instances through the Public Gateway's public IPv4 address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, once the Instance is added to the Private Network and auto configured through DHCP, it cannot be accessed through its public IPv4 address anymore. Later in this tutorial, we explain how to configure port forwarding to access your Instances through the Public Gateway's public IPv4 address.
```

## Configuring port forwarding 

> Port forwarding allows to configure a mapping of ports on the IP address of the Public Gateway to IP addresses and ports inside the Private Network. This allows to access services on Virtual Instances in a Private Network without the need for a public IP address on each of them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Port forwarding allows you to configure a mapping of ports on the IP address of the Public Gateway to IP addresses and ports inside the Private Network. This allows you to access services on Instances in a Private Network without the need for a public IP address on each of them. 
```

1. Click **VPC** in the **Network** section of the side menu in the Scaleway console. The VPC configuration displays.

2. Click the **Public Gateways** tab. The list of your Public Gateways displays. 

3. Click <Icon name="more" /> > **More Info** to display the Public Gateway information. 

4. Click the **DHCP** tab. Then click **View DHCP Status** to display the list of devices autoconfigured by the DHCP server: 

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_dhcp_status.png" />

  <Message type="tip">

>   As you can notice in the screenshot above, both entries have the **dynamic** type. This means the DHCP server has dynamically assigned an IP address to each device. The assigned IP address may change and the port forwarding will stop working. To avoid this, configure a **static** lease. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As you can see in the screenshot above, both entries have the **dynamic** type. This means the DHCP server has dynamically assigned an IP address to each device. The assigned IP address may change and the port forwarding will stop working. To avoid this, configure a **static** lease. 
```

---
title: Deploying Instances in a Private Network and exposing them using a Private Gateway

> description: This page shows how to deploy virtual Instances in a Private Network and expose them using a Private Gateway

Reviewer 2: replace Private Gateway by Public Gateway

Author: ```suggestion
title: Deploying Instances in a Private Network and exposing them using a Public Gateway
description: This page shows how to deploy virtual Instances in a Private Network and expose them using a Public Gateway
```

excerpt: |
  VPC consists of Private Networks and Public Gateways to create an isolated network environment for your instances, without exposing them on the public Internet. 
totalTime: PT20M
  - network
brands:
  - vpc
keywords: cloud tutorials, cloud documentations, cloud instance, cloud hosting, network, virtual instance, private network, vpc, public gateway, virtual private cloud
---

## VPC - Overview

> VPC consists of [Private Networks](https://www.scaleway.com/en/private-networks/) and [Public Gateways](https://www.scaleway.com/en/public-gateway/) to create an isolated network environment for your instances, without exposing them on the public Internet. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VPC is a family of products providing network functionalities within the customer cloud. It consists in:
- [Private Networks](https://www.scaleway.com/en/private-networks/) that enable to create layer-2 private networks between instances,
- and [Public Gateways](https://www.scaleway.com/en/public-gateway/) that sit at the border of your private network to provide access to the public Internet and automate assignment of IP addresses.
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- You have created a [Virtual Instance](https://www.scaleway.com/en/virtual-instances/)

</Message>

## Creating a Private Network for the Virtual Instance

1. Connect to your Instance using [SSH](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/). 

  ```
  ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

  You can connect to your instance without [flexible IP address](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/use-flexips/) by using it's IPv6 address.

  </Message>

> 2. Check the status of your network interfaces using the `ip a` command. You see the details of the default ethernet adapter of your Instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Check the status of your network interfaces using the `ip a` command. You see the details of the default Ethernet adapter of your Instance:
```

  ```
  2: ens2: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether de:1c:a4:2b:d0:39 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.70.104.113/31 scope global dynamic ens2
       valid_lft 85983sec preferred_lft 85983sec
    inet6 2001:bc8:634:c38::1/64 scope global
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::dc1c:a4ff:fe2b:d039/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

3. Go to the [VPC section](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/private-networks) of the Scaleway console. The VPC splash screen displays. 

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_splash.png" alt="" />

4. Click **Create a new Private Network**. The Private Network creation wizard displays. 

5. Enter the details of the new Private Network and click **Create a Private Network**:

  - Enter a **Name** for the Private Network
  - Select the region for the Private Network

    <Message type="note">

>     Make sure to create the Private Network in the same region as your Virtual Instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Make sure to create the Private Network in the same region as your Virtual Instance.
```

    </Message>

> 6. The list of your Private Networks displays. Click on the name of it to display the Private Network information. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. The list of your Private Networks displays. Click on the Private Network's name to display its information. 
```

7. Click the **Attached Resources** tab to see the list of instances attached to the Private Network. 

8. Select your Instance from the drop down menu and click **Add Instance** to attach it to the Private Network:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_add_instance.png" alt="" />

9. Use the `ip a` command on the Instance to verify the presence of the new ethernet interface: 

  ```
  3: ens5: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 02:00:00:00:5a:d8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet6 fe80::ff:fe00:5ad8/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

> The Instance is now added to the Private Network but no IP address has been configured. You can configure it manually or use DHCP auto configuration to use the interface with a Public Gateway. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Instance is now added to the Private Network but no IP address has been configured. You can configure it manually or use DHCP auto configuration with a Public Gateway. 
```

## Creating a Public Gateway

1. Click the [Public Gateways](https://console.scaleway.com/vpc/public-gateways) tab in the VPC section of the Scaleway console. The Public Gateways splash screen displays. Click **Create a Public Gateway**:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_splash.png" alt="" />

> 2. The Private Network creation wizard displays. Enter the details of the new Public Gateway: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The Public Gateway creation wizard displays. Enter the details of the new Public Gateway: 
```

>   - Choose the availability Zone of the Public Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Choose the Availability Zone of the Public Gateway.
```

  - Select the Public Gateway offer
  - Select the Public Gateway IP address. To create a new IP, select **Allocate new IP** in the drop-down list. 

>   - Enter a name and optional tags for the Private Gateway

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Enter a name and optional tags for the Public Gateway
```

3. Click **Create a Public Gateway**. The list of your Public Gateways displays.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_list.png" alt="" />

4. Click **Manage** to display the Public Gateway Information. 

> 5. Click **+ Attach a new Private Network** to link the previously created Private Network with the Public Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **+ Attach a new Private Network** to attach the previously created Private Network to the Public Gateway.
```

> 6. Select the Private Network from the drop-down list, enable the DHCP server and dynamic NAT. Then click **Attach Private Network**:

Reviewer 2: Aren't DHCP server and dynamic NAT enabled by default?

```suggestion
6. Select the Private Network from the drop-down list, then click **Attach Private Network**:
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_public_gateway_attach_network.png" alt="" /> 

7. Check if the IP address for the Private Network has been assigned to the instance using the DHCP server of the Private Gateway by running the `ip a` command: 

  ```
  3: ens5: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 02:00:00:00:5a:d8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 192.168.0.2/24 brd 192.168.0.255 scope global dynamic ens5
       valid_lft 3513sec preferred_lft 3513sec
    inet6 fe80::ff:fe00:5bea/64 scope link 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
  ```

  You can see the private IP address `192.168.0.2` has been configured automatically on the interface.

> 

Reviewer 2: Note formatting needed; not sure of the syntax.

```suggestion

Note that, once the instance is added to the Private Network and auto configured through DHCP, it cannot be accessed through its public IPv4 address anymore. Later in this tutorial, we explain how to configure port forwarding to access your instances through the Public Gateway's public IPv4 address.

```

> ## Adding a second Instance to the Private Gateway
> 
> 1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the Scaleway console to display the list of your instances. Click **+ Create an Instance**.
> 
> 2. Enter the details for your new instance and click **Create a new Instance**. The instace is being created. Once this is done, the list of your Instances displays.
> 
> 3. Click **VPC** in the **Network** section. The list of your Private Networks displays.
> 
> 4. Click <icon name="more" /> > **More info** to display the details of the Private Network.
> 
> 5. Click the **Attached Ressources** tab to display a list of resources attached to your Private Network.
> 
> 7. Select your new Instance in the drop down list and click **Add Instance** to attach it to the Private Network:
> 
>   <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_add_instance.png" alt="" />
> 
>   The new Instance displays in the list of devices connected to the Private Network.
> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think this section is required in the tutorial. It doesn't bring anything new, does it?

```suggestion
```

## Configuring port forwarding 

> Port forwarding allows to configure a mapping of ports on the IP address of the Public Gateway to IP addresses and ports inside the Private Network. This allows to access services on Virtual Instances in a Private Network without need for a flexible public IP on them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Port forwarding allows to configure a mapping of ports on the IP address of the Public Gateway to IP addresses and ports inside the Private Network. This allows to access services on Virtual Instances in a Private Network without the need for a public IP address on each of them. 
```

1. Click **VPC** in the **Network** section of the side menu in the Scaleway console. The VPC configuration displays.

2. Click the **Public Gateways** tab. The list of your Public Gateways displays. 

3. Click <Icon name="more" /> > **More Info** to display the Public Gateway information. 

4. Click the **DHCP** tab. Then click **View DHCP Status** to display the list of devices autoconfigured by the DHCP server: 

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_dhcp_status.png" />

  <Message type="tip">

>   You notice in the screenshot above, that both entries are **dynamic** types. This means the DHCP server dynamically assigns an IP address to each device. The assigned IP address may change and the port forwarding will stop working. To avoid this, configure a **static** lease. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  As you can notice in the screenshot above, both entries have the **dynamic** type. This means the DHCP server has dynamically assigned an IP address to each device. The assigned IP address may change and the port forwarding will stop working. To avoid this, configure a **static** lease. 
```

  </Message>

5. Copy the **MAC address** of the device you want configure. Then click **Configure DHCP**.

6. Click **Edit** > **Add static association** and enter the MAC address and the private IP address for the Instance. Confirm by clicking <Icon name="validate" />

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_static_dhcp.png" />

7. Click the **NAT** tab to display the NAT configuration. 

> 8. Click **+ Add Static NAT** to conigure a new static NAT rule. In this example, we expose the internal port `22` of the Instance `192.168.0.2` to the external port `2202` of the Public Gateway. Confirm by clicking <Icon name="validate" />:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click **+ Add Static NAT** to configure a new static NAT rule (aka a port forwarding rule). In this example, we expose the internal port `22` of the Instance `192.168.0.2` to the external port `2202` of the Public Gateway. Confirm by clicking <Icon name="validate" />:
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway_vpc_static_nat.png" />

>   <Message type="tip">
> 
>   You can select to forward either:
>     * TCP traffic
>     * UDP traffic
>   or both. 
> 
>   </Message>
> 

Reviewer 2: Not required in a tutorial

```suggestion
```

You can now connect to your Instance using the IP address of the Public Gateway: 

```
ssh root@<public_gateway_ip> -p 2202
```

> You are now logged into the first Instance using the IP address of the Public Gateway: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are now logged into the Instance using the IP address of the Public Gateway: 
```

```
Welcome to Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.4.0-81-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

root@my-first-instance:~#

> ```

Reviewer 2: Add something like:

Congratulations, you have completed your first VPC configuration. To move forward, see
- link to PN doc
- link to Public Gateway getting started
- link to Public Gateway advanced
